Classification of Coronary Artery Disease
=========================================

The objective of the analysis is to use statistical learning to identify factors associated with Coronary Artery Disease as indicated by a coronary angiography interpreted by a Cardiologist.

According to the paper by (Detrano et al., 1989) the data represents data collected for 303 patients referred for coronary angiography at the Cleveland Clinic between May 1981 and September 1984. The 13 independent/ features variables can be divided into 3 groups as follows:

Routine evaluation (based on historical data):
* ECG at rest
* Serum Cholesterol
* Fasting blood sugar

Non-invasive test data (informed consent obtained for data as part of research protocol):
* Exercise ECG
    * ST-segment peak slope (upsloping, flat or downsloping)
    * ST-segment depression
* Excercise Thallium scintigraphy (fixed, reversible or none)
* Cardiac fluoroscopy (number of vessels appeared to contain calcium)

Other demographic and clinical variables (based on routine data):
* Age
* Sex
* Chest pain type
* Systolic blood pressure
* ST-T-wave abnormality (T-wave abnormality)
* Probably or definite ventricular hypertrophy (Este's criteria)

The dependent/ response variable was the angiographic test result indicating a >50% diameter narrowing.

The dataset used can be found on the UCI Machine Learning Repository at the following location:

[Heart Disease Dataset](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Heart+Disease "Heart Disease Dataset")
 
Approach
======== 
 
I used PyCharm for development, and the virtual environment files (for both MacOS and Windows) generated by PyCharm (and used by the project) are also uploaded to GitHub. The environment can hence be reproduced. The requirements.txt document in the root directory of this project contains all dependencies in case the environment needs to be rebuilt from scratch.

I chose the Jupyter Notebook tool for exploration. The notebook is heavily annotated with comments on the analysis and should be used as the primary source for evaluating the analysis. The notebook also contains many graphs. A static version of the Notebook can be accessed [here](https://github.com/LourensWalters/Projects/blob/main/cor_art_dis/notebooks/explore_data_2020_10_24_fin.ipynb "here") for purposes of viewing the analysis.  

I used the cookiecutter Machine Learning source code template for this project. This template organises code, data and documentation in a structured manner which allows for flexible exploration of data and structured deployment of production ready code. I focused on the exploratory part of the analysis, eliciting as much information from the data as possible. Future work would be to refactor the code for production readiness. I have started this process by moving some of the code to modules which are referenced from the notebook, and hence the src/visualization directory contains most of the plots contained in the Notebook. If the Notebook is to be run offline the src/ directories will need to be linked the notebook.  


Project Organization
------------

    ├── LICENSE
    ├── Makefile           <- Makefile with commands like `make data` or `make train`
    ├── README.md          <- The top-level README for developers using this project.
    ├── data
    │   ├── external       <- Data from third party sources.
    │   ├── interim        <- Intermediate data that has been transformed.
    │   ├── processed      <- The final, canonical data sets for modeling.
    │   └── raw            <- The original, immutable data dump.
    │
    ├── docs               <- A default Sphinx project; see sphinx-doc.org for details
    │
    ├── models             <- Trained and serialized models, model predictions, or model summaries
    │
    ├── notebooks          <- Jupyter notebooks. Naming convention is a number (for ordering),
    │                         the creator's initials, and a short `-` delimited description, e.g.
    │                         `1.0-jqp-initial-data-exploration`.
    │
    ├── references         <- Data dictionaries, manuals, and all other explanatory materials.
    │
    ├── reports            <- Generated analysis as HTML, PDF, LaTeX, etc.
    │   └── figures        <- Generated graphics and figures to be used in reporting
    │
    ├── requirements.txt   <- The requirements file for reproducing the analysis environment, e.g.
    │                         generated with `pip freeze > requirements.txt`
    │
    ├── setup.py           <- makes project pip installable (pip install -e .) so src can be imported
    ├── src                <- Source code for use in this project.
    │   ├── __init__.py    <- Makes src a Python module
    │   │
    │   ├── data           <- Scripts to download or generate data
    │   │   └── make_dataset.py
    │   │
    │   ├── features       <- Scripts to turn raw data into features for modeling
    │   │   └── build_features.py
    │   │
    │   ├── models         <- Scripts to train models and then use trained models to make
    │   │   │                 predictions
    │   │   ├── predict_model.py
    │   │   └── train_model.py
    │   │
    │   └── visualization  <- Scripts to create exploratory and results oriented visualizations
    │       └── visualize.py
    │
    └── tox.ini            <- tox file with settings for running tox; see tox.readthedocs.io


--------

<p><small>Project based on the <a target="_blank" href="https://drivendata.github.io/cookiecutter-data-science/">cookiecutter data science project template</a>. #cookiecutterdatascience</small></p>
